Brute Force Wordlists
In contrast to a dictionary attack, a
brute force password attack
calculates and tests every possible
character combination
that could make up a
password until the correct one is found.
While this may sound like a simple
approach that guarantees results,
it is extremely time-consuming.
Depending on the length and complexity of
the password
and the computational power
of the testing system,
it can take a very long time, even years,
to brute force a strong password.
We could even combine these two
concepts
and create brute force wordlists,
dictionary files that contain every
possible password
that matches a specific pattern.
For example, consider a scenario that
reveals a very specific
password enforcement policy.
Looking at the passwords, we notice a
distinct pattern
in the password structure.
Each password begins with a capital letter
followed by two lower-case letters,
then two special characters, and
finally, three digits.
Armed with this knowledge, it would be
incredibly helpful to create a wordlist
that contains every possible password
that matches this pattern.
Crunch, included with Kali Linux, is a
powerful wordlist generator
that can handle this task.
To use it, we must first describe the
pattern we need crunch to replicate,
and for this we’ll use placeholders that
represent specific types of characters.
To generate a wordlist that matches
our requirements,
we’ll specify a minimum and maximum word
length of eight characters,
and describe our rule pattern with -t:
The command works as expected,
but as noted, the output
would consume a massive 160 GB
of disk space!
Remember that brute force techniques
prioritize password coverage
at the expense of speed, and
in this case, disk space.
We can also define a character
set with crunch.
For example, we can create a brute
force wordlist accounting for passwords
between four and six characters in length,
containing only the characters 0-9 and A-F,
and we’ll write the output to a file:
Notice the file output size is
significantly smaller
than the previous example, primarily due
to the removal of special characters.
However, the wordlist file is impressive,
containing over 17 million passwords.
In addition, we can generate passwords
based on pre-defined character-sets.
For example, we can specify the path
to the character set file with -f,
and choose the mixed alpha set which
includes all lower and upper case letters:
Although this particular command
generates an enormous
131 GB wordlist file, it offers rather
impressive password coverage.
Spend time with JTR and crunch and think
of how each one
can be used most effectively.
As we will discover in the next section,
we need to avoid the temptation
to rely on massive and generic wordlists
as they can have adverse effects
on our client’s production environment.